## Detect & Respond to Threats

### Intrusion Detection

This capability helps in detecting proactively the vulnerability
caused by looking at the network traffic. This acts as a line of
defense to identify early signs of malicious activities and gives
ability to effectively report and respond. Usually, the threats are
identified by a standard signature-based mechanism. In this the
traffic patterns are analyzed based on already known specific
patterns. However, this approach has a limitation of missing new
attacks for which no signature exists. Looking at today's threat
landscape it is better to also look at capabilities which enable an AI
based approach which uses machine learning to create a model which
helps to identify still unknown attacks.

### Vulnerability Scanning

Ability to identify vulnerabilities within the network is a critical
line of defense to proactively identify scenarios of security weakness
which can lead to threats. This is enabled by some of the tools which
help in scanning and identifying threats. Usually, it does it by
scanning the whole network to create an inventory of the systems which
are connected and then builds up a knowledge base, e.g., operating
system, software running on each node, open ports, accounts etc. It is
also important to have a constantly enriched knowledge base against
which this inventory and its data needs to be compared to identify
vulnerabilities. This becomes much more critical in industrial setup,
as in majority of the scenarios unlike the IT ecosystem, the inventory
of assets is either not created or is not updated due to lack of
focused solutions for this area. This could mean like for example a
PLC may be running a very outdated and unpatched OS, some of the ports
on a PLC may be open although not required, a laptop may be connected
on the same network as manufacturing line with higher user privileges,
a new program may be loaded to a PLC. All these scenarios open up a
huge attack vector. While such a capability is a standard in IT
networks, but manufacturers should look into enabling this capability
in OT network as well. For this to work this capability should be
capable of understand the OT system and network, its specific
protocols, its processes, and capabilities of various automation OEM
systems.

### Threat Intelligence & Monitoring

Threat Intelligence & Monitoring is a capability which draws its
features from multiple other security capabilities like logging,
monitoring, vulnerability scanning, IDS, IPS etc. This is focused on
collecting and analyzing information about the current and potential
attack vectors and is helpful towards improving the security posture.
It helps to play a major role in helping detect a potential attack
early enough to either prevent or limit its impact. It is important
that this capability is able to collect and process data from multiple
existing sources and solutions, is able to process data in multiple
formats, is able to add context between the data, and is able to
identify thread indicators. It is important for the organization to
have capability to constantly research new threats emerging outside
and augment this information. In case organization lacks this in house
skills of research and analysis, it can also tap into solution vendors
specializing in this area.

### Risk & Vulnerability Management

In this context where the networks handling IT and OT assets have
started to connect, it is important to have the capability to look at
the entire attach surface. In an approach of looking at only
vulnerabilities in isolation may have an impact of missing out the
vulnerabilities which pose more risk or threat and which needs to be
prioritized. Hence looking at vulnerabilities with the Lense of the
risk helps to put a context and helps to prioritize and group them
into areas of focus. Also, this process needs to be automatic and
dynamic so that it can change the risk score based on the shifting
threat landscape. Overall, this capability encompasses other aspects
to enable the complete cycle of Discovering, Classification,
Prioritization, and Remediation.

### Monitoring

Monitoring is a foundational capability which helps analyze and
process billions of events and alerts being generated by various
systems which can be running in the centralized/cloud system, or in
the plant eco system (including production support systems, equipment,
devices, gateways etc.). This allows to analyze this diverse set of
data to optimize performance, remediate problems, and also to monitor
for security incidents and events. Monitoring can go from simple
reporting, to a complex one which also includes aspects of machine
learning to filter out noise from information.

### Logging

Logging is one of the most fundamental capabilities which essentially
drives a lot of upper-level security capabilities. As most of the
capabilities would depend on the underlying systems to provide it with
enough data to identify patters. For example, event logs can be used
for forensic works to look at audit trails when doing the root cause
analysis. Hence it is important that all systems provide a consistent
and controllable access to logs. Also, a centralized logging framework
helps to connect various systems and identify patterns and
correlations helping in proactively identifying threats


--- <!-- META -->
id: mra-cc-security-detect
title: Control Identity and Access
sidebar_label: Control Identity and Access
context: mra-cc > mra-cc-security
parent: mra-cc-security
child:
prev: mra-cc-security-protect
next: mra-cc-security-manage
